task3/config-notes.md, before:

## 4.1 Kernel Naming
**LOCALVERSION value:** -esp-LKP26
**Method used:** 
- [*] menuconfig: General setup -> Local version
- [ ] Direct .config edit: CONFIG_LOCALVERSION="-xxx-LKP26"
**Command/steps:**

```
$ make defconfig
```

```
$ make menuconfig
```

I set the debug configurations here using slash('/') to search.


```
$ tmux new -s LKP-esp
```

```
$ time make -j$(nproc)
```

```
$ make modules_install && make modules
```

## 4.2 Debug Configuration

| Option | Explanation |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------|
| CONFIG_DEBUG_INFO_DWARF5 | It generates modern debugging information (DWARF version 5). DWARF5 is |
| CONFIG_GDB_SCRIPTS |This builds helper scripts specifically for GDB. |
| CONFIG_FRAME_POINTER | <1-2 sentences> |
| CONFIG_MAGIC_SYSRQ | <1-2 sentences> |
| CONFIG_RANDOMIZE_BASE (off) | <1-2 sentences> |

## 4.3 Build Metrics

**tmux session name:** LKP-esp

**Build timing:**

- real: 12m5.903s

- user: 223m21.954s

- sys: 37m41.789s

**Kernel image size:**

- bzImage: 15 MB (from ls -lh arch/x86/boot/bzImage)

**Module count:**

- Total .ko files: 6386 (from find . -name "*.ko" | wc -l)

**Screenshot:** tmux-build.png (attached)

![tmux-build](./tmux-build.png)

## 4.4 Install and Verify

**uname -a output:**

```
Linux aquamarine 6.18.0-esp-LKP26 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Tue Jan 27 01:35:02 UTC 2026 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

**Verification checklist:**

- [*] Version shows 6.18.0

- [*] LOCALVERSION shows -esp-LKP26

- [*] SMP indicates multi-processor support

**Screenshot:** kernel-booted.png (attached)

![kernel-booted](./kernel-booted.png)

Commit message:

edit configuration option explanations
Updated explanations for CONFIG_FRAME_POINTER, CONFIG_MAGIC_SYSRQ, and CONFIG_RANDOMIZE_BASE in config-notes.md.

task3/config-notes.md, after:

## 4.1 Kernel Naming
**LOCALVERSION value:** -esp-LKP26
**Method used:** 
- [*] menuconfig: General setup -> Local version
- [ ] Direct .config edit: CONFIG_LOCALVERSION="-xxx-LKP26"
**Command/steps:**

```
$ make defconfig
```

```
$ make menuconfig
```

I set the debug configurations here using slash('/') to search.


```
$ tmux new -s LKP-esp
```

```
$ time make -j$(nproc)
```

```
$ make modules_install && make modules
```

## 4.2 Debug Configuration

| Option | Explanation |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------|
| CONFIG_DEBUG_INFO_DWARF5 | It generates modern debugging information (DWARF version 5). DWARF5 is |
| CONFIG_GDB_SCRIPTS |This builds helper scripts specifically for GDB. |
| CONFIG_FRAME_POINTER | It ensures the compiler maintains stack frame pointers, which allows GDB to reliably trace the function call history (backtrace). Without this, debugging crashes is very difficult. |
| CONFIG_MAGIC_SYSRQ | It enables "Magic SysRq" keys that allow you to send emergency commands (like reboot or dump state) directly to the kernel, even if the system is completely frozen. |
| CONFIG_RANDOMIZE_BASE (off) | It disables KASLR (memory randomization) so that kernel memory addresses remain static. This is required for GDB to correctly match breakpoints and symbols to the code. |

## 4.3 Build Metrics

**tmux session name:** LKP-esp

**Build timing:**

- real: 12m5.903s

- user: 223m21.954s

- sys: 37m41.789s

**Kernel image size:**

- bzImage: 15 MB (from ls -lh arch/x86/boot/bzImage)

**Module count:**

- Total .ko files: 6386 (from find . -name "*.ko" | wc -l)

**Screenshot:** tmux-build.png (attached)

![tmux-build](./tmux-build.png)

## 4.4 Install and Verify

**uname -a output:**

```
Linux aquamarine 6.18.0-esp-LKP26 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Tue Jan 27 01:35:02 UTC 2026 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

**Verification checklist:**

- [*] Version shows 6.18.0

- [*] LOCALVERSION shows -esp-LKP26

- [*] SMP indicates multi-processor support

**Screenshot:** kernel-booted.png (attached)

![kernel-booted](./kernel-booted.png)
